# The Causal Effects of U.N. Peacekeeping Operations on Economic Development

The United Nation's (UN) pacifying role in the world has been stained in the public eye with images of Rwanda and Srebrenica (Bosnia) coming to mind. Despite this, most studies evaluating the potentially pacifying effects of UN peacekeeping operations (PKOs) have largely demonstrated a positive relationship between UN PKOs and peace. To a lesser extent, researchers have also sought to evaluate the *economic* consequences of UN PKOs. Given the relationship between economic development and conflict, UN PKOs should also lead to better economic conditions if we expect PKOs to be effective at promoting peace. However, most studies in this area are limited to correlative analyses. Where quasi-experimental methods are employed, they are often lacking, missing a clear confounder identification strategy, misusing quasi-experimental methods, and/or omitting sensitivity analysis to assess the impact of unobserved confounders. This project employs matching and inverse probability weighting (IPW) designed for panel data as implemented by [Imai et al. (2021)](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/ajps.12685) to evaluate the causal impact of UN PKOs on economic development.

PKO deployments cause a noticeable decrease in economic development in the eight years following a deployment. For PKO withdrawals, the effect is not statistically significant, but the sign of the effect is increasingly negative over time. However, spillover effects, a lack of spatial and temporal coverage, and the sensitivity of results to unknown confounders places a large asterisks next to these findings.
